# Object oriented programming

*Classes and objects*

Ruby is, like many other popular languages, an object oriented programming
language. Other object oriented languages that you might have heard of, are
C++, Java, Python, PHP, and Javascript. At some point in the 1990s this
paradigm has started to become more and more popular and nowadays it is the
most prevalent one.

One reason for this is that object oriented programming very much fits the way
of how we perceive and think about the world, at least in the occidental
culture. Our way of thinking was, historically, very much influenced by Plato,
and other philosophers who followed him later:

We somehow tend to think about the world as if there are abstract "ideas" (or
concepts) and concrete "things", which are entities of the ideas, or
implementations of the concept. Ideas are like blueprints for things. E.g.
there's the idea of a human being, and then there are actual human beings, you,
and me. Our idea of a human being includes the ability to, for example,
remember their own name, and tell it to others when asked. We know that we can
ask people for their names, and they'll know it.

Now, object oriented programming languages allow you to describe things exactly
this way: In object oriented programming languages "ideas" are called classes.
And actual "things" are called objects. As a programmer you would define
classes, like a class "User" and a class "Tweet", and then create actual
instances of these classes: an actual concrete user with this name, that email
address, a password and actual tweets. You would also define that users have
the ability to remember their names, and tell it to others when asked.

Every object oriented programming languages comes with some "ideas", that is,
classes, already baked in, and so does Ruby. For example Ruby has classes for
numbers, strings (text), and other useful things. You therefor can, without any
further effort, do number calculations, or text transformations.

In your first excercises you will do just that. Later on you will then learn to
define your own "ideas" as classes, and then use them by the way of creating
actual instances, objects, from these classes, and make them interact and do
interesting stuff.

(There is, today, some debate about the paradigm of object oriented
programming, and whether we should move on to a new one, called "functional
programming", and you might hear about this if you talk to developers. Some
functional languages are Haskell, Go, and Clojure, and they have recently
started gaining some traction. Don't let yourself be distracted by this too
much, unless you really want to. Ruby is a very good language to start learning
programming for lots of reasons.)
