# Variables

*Naming things*

In order to refer to the "things" (objects) that our program deals with we want
to assign names to them.

Every practical programming language has a feature to do this, called
variables. This is basically the same concept that you might know from math,
although in Ruby there are different kinds of variables (you will get to know
another one in a couple chapters).

In Ruby you can assign a name to something (an object) by using the so called
assignment operator `=`. Like so:

```ruby
number = 1
```

This will *assign* the name `number` to the object that is the number `1`. From
now on we can refer to this object by using the name `number`. For example the
following code would output the number `1`:

```ruby
number = 1
puts number
```

One important thing to note here is that a variable is not a "thing" an object
by itself. Instead it's just a *name* for an actual object. In our example the
number `1` is an object, while `number` is a name for it because we've assigned
it.

<p class="hint">
A variable itself is not a "thing". It's just a name for a thing (an object).
</p>

You can think of it like a post-it note with the name `number` written on it,
and stuck on the actual thing, which is an object (in this case, a number).

Imagine you were in the middle of learning some Spanish, and sticked post-its
onto things in your apartment: the name "nevara" onto the refridgerator, "cama"
onto your bed, and "puerta del ba√±o" onto the bathroom door.

That's pretty much how variable assignment works in Ruby. There's a "thing",
the object on the right side of the assignment operator `=`, and the name on
the left side is being assigned to it.

<p class="hint">
You can pick whatever variable names you want, they're just names, like post-it
notes stuck onto actual objects.
</p>

However, also note that it makes sense to try and pick names that reveal your
intention. The chapter <a href="/bonus/good_names.html">Using the right words</a> at
the end of this book will talk more about this. Feel free to jump ahead if you
are curious.

There are a two more things about variable assignments that we'd like to
point out before we move on.

